---
title: "Media Queries"
date: "2023-3-8"
desc: "Viewports and browser windows"
---

When I am developing websites, the working browser window usually starts out small. It’s like 350px wide. As the elements on the page take shape, I slowly expand the browser window. Routinely, this available space allows quite a few of these elements to jump around the screen, sometimes settling in unpredictable ways. It’s usually not a huge problem though, and I can fix discrepancies that occur by adding a media query somewhere in the site’s CSS script. Then once more, I expand the browser window again and observe the behavior of elements on the page. If there’s anything I don’t like again, I add another media query at the end of my CSS styling. This behavior happens recursively until I max out the available width of my computer screen or feel confident enough to have put the relevant styling for major screen sizes. Fun stuff.

Strangely, the hardest part about learning foundational web development for me was what I’ve just described to you: [responsive design](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Responsive_web_design). It’s funny to talk about because I had no issue with the theory at the time. My mind found it easy to grasp that there were [media queries](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Media_queries) to chuck in, a [viewport meta](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Viewport_meta_tag) tag somewhere, some [fluid images](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Responsive_images) here and there and maybe some [flexbox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Flexbox) to make it easy to spin up nice layouts. No biggie. Right?

In practice, however, I found it very easy to dread the task of making my elements responsive. My fingers would tense up when it was time to resize my desktop window and analyze the site’s behavior. It’s hilarious now to think retrospectively and realize that this was the reason I sometimes procrastinated finishing whole projects. That uncertainty at not knowing what each new viewport would bring to the site’s behavior was initially so unsettling. I didn’t want to feel frustrated when I realized that there was now an element hanging uncomfortably at some point on the screen, or some animation on the site finding it difficult to adjust effectively.

Interestingly, this isn’t even a unique feeling — and resizing browser windows and chucking in media queries is most of what I do with life. It appears we’re always growing, and changing. Stepping into spaces that quite often feel bigger, weird, and initially uncomfortable. And in many ways, spaces do have the ability to dictate how we behave. Almost like how the viewport width changes how elements behave, environments can really shape how we act as people. I guess the anxiety I used to feel when expanding my browser window is synonymous with how one feels when it’s time to step into a space that’s larger. You’re initially unsure of what each new experience brings. Uncertain about how it might change you, unable to predict how the elements in you might jumble up and transpose. [ALA’s](https://www.africanleadershipacademy.org/) is probably the biggest space I’ve been in yet. In many ways, the elements in me moved and reacted to that change. It was unorthodox, and I suppose being in such a diverse space with diverse people has the power to change you. A lot of that’s been good, though some bad as well. Luckily, media queries do exist in the real world — models that we willingly put in our psyche to consciously steer us in the direction we want to be.

When developing sites nowadays the way I add queries is less sporadic than it used to be. Before I start developing I usually choose breakpoints and then map out the overarching theme on [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) before the code writing starts. But still ever so often there’s another media query I add to fix something wrong that I didn’t initially plan to add. For the most part, the only way to find out whether there are enough queries in the script is to well, resize the window. In essence, to identify issues with responsiveness, you have to allow your elements to interact at different screen sizes. Only then can I truly inflect, see what’s wrong, and add in the necessary lines to fix things that are wrong. I’m learning to love all of this now. As for the most part, my mind sees the prospect of settling in a new space as an opportunity to add a media query to my CSS script, and probably correct some part of me that wasn’t reacting all too well. Very often as well there’s a media query I might have added in the past that I realize I don’t need so I just remove it. It’s the same way although I might have added some model/framework to my psyche at a point, where growth happens, and I realize later on that it no longer serves me.

I’m unsure why I’ve been able to write 800 words this morning about how interesting media queries have suddenly become to me, or how striking the parallels between that and life are but it's provided a useful framework one can use to interpret life on this planet. _Growing, changing environments and creating new models to complement that growth, whilst removing old and outdated ones that no longer serve us. That's the game._
