---
title: "19 / Holocene"
date: "2023-5-4"
desc: "Emotions from the past year, life's transience, and birthday thoughts on Holocene."
---

I spend a great deal of time talking about how I feel and a lot of it happens in the entries I write in my private journal. It's usually an outpouring. A stream of consciousness I release to log my current mental state. It's also usually sporadic and irregular—as each entry manifests from whatever strong emotion I might've been experiencing at that time. Joy, anger, happiness, nostalgia, anything. I've also been doing this for quite some time too! I wouldn't call it a habit though because, like I said, against my better attempts to give my writing a [system](http://danieleta.com/commentary), what I write very often comes out whenever it feels like. I also hardly read it back. The blobs of text are just things my fingers type out because there are thoughts in my head, and I need a release. If I'm lucky this happens about 9 times a month, or twice a week.

The power scheduling has been erratic since last week. To be fair it’s always been erratic but this time I just wasn’t able to figure out a coherent pattern of when [they](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ikeja_Electric) give us electricity. Yesterday was really bad because there was no power throughout the night. The computer was dead as well so work was quickly out of the picture and I couldn’t force myself to sleep because I had taken a very long nap during the day. So, consumed by trademark darkness and Nigerian humidity, I began to read through all the entries I had logged in my journal.

Reading it back was interesting, especially the entries that I strung together more than 6 months ago. It’s funny how much text I’ve put down in my archives. The way I’ve made a habit of logging my emotions down in their entirety whenever I do feel them. I read back everything: things I wrote in anger, joy, happiness, sadness, nostalgia. Everything. It’s been fascinating to see how my mind has ebbed and flowed and changed through time. But I think what struck me the most was how ephemeral it all seemed. Some days I was happy. Some days I was sad. Some frustrated, excited, tired, content—the interesting part about writing so much for such a long time is that whilst the entries are always unique because the context always differs, in many ways, it reaches a point in time where everything feels repetitive. I said I was happy on January 21st, likewise 3 months ago in February. Just last week I had written that I was happy, and when the day winds down today I’ll probably tell my journal that I’m happy again.

Today I completed my 19th dance around the sun. Honestly, it is great that my birthday has come around at a time when I've been thinking a lot about repetition, and how fleeting emotions can often be. I'm also especially pleased because I've finally concluded that [Holocene](https://open.spotify.com/track/1ILEK6NRfxoseoPnolRcVA?si=c6ab8ebd95f045e6) by [Bon Iver](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bon_Iver) is the best song to ever exist. It's been lurking around my top spot for a bit now but I can confidently say that it's the pinnacle of creative expression. And it’s not just that Justin Vernon’s falsetto is sonically ethereal, Holocene explores a theme that excites me: ephemeral states and transitive experiences.

When Justin cries “I was not magnificent” at the chorus, a small part of me gets a bit lighter because a lot of what I speculate that he means ties into a lot of what I've been thinking (and in this entry, writing) about. I don't have a lot of context and my interpretations of the song could be purely conjecture but it does feel like Vernon is expressing his understanding of his insignificance in a world as big as ours. If that is the case, I think that it is really beautiful how he does it in a soft, retrospective, and wistful way.

Like Justin, if I am lucky and I hit ~90 years, my lifetime is still meager in the grand scheme of things. I'm a brief dot, a footnote in the history of a planet that's been around for an incredible amount of time. The chances are that in that period, I'll experience all the emotions I've written about in my journal (though in differing contexts) again and again and again. Anger, happiness, sadness, joy. I will feel things, and I will often feel them intensely. The chorus is special to me because it renders a beautiful reminder that everything is temporary. The emotions I feel will fade, and come again, and fade, until I too, ultimately fade.

When I originally ran this notion through some of my friends, the response I got was that I was probably trivializing my emotions, and making myself smaller than I needed to be. I do not think that is correct. If anything, Vernon’s cry, and all that I have realized reading my journal, is profound motivation for me to feel, and to do so intensely. Because my existence is brief, I intend to revel in the things that make me human. When the emotions are pleasant, I’m going to try my hardest to feel it all. To stay in the moment and experience the warmth in my chest because I know that that will wane. Likewise, when there is some worry in my chest, I will still feel it out. I will take it as part of my human experience while keeping in mind that despair dissipates and that the gloomy clouds fade away. Like all things always do.
