---
title: "One Too Many Zebras"
date: "2023-2-17"
desc: "Anti-heroes, moral ambiguity, and the layers there are when exploring human behavior."
---

I do this thing where I re-watch a show that I've already watched 5 times. I am unsure why, but after the second watch, the movie/show gets exponentially more gratifying with each subsequent watch after that. I’ve hypothesized that it’s because by then I’ve gotten more comfortable with the plot, and when I can tell what’s going to happen, it’s less likely to make me anxious. Think this works well because whilst I don’t watch a lot of media, I can fill in that time by revisiting the shows that make me happy until I can complete the characters’ lines. It’s incredibly fun as well, because with each watch it feels like I’m peeling back layers of the onion and uncovering fresh insight into the story.

This month, I started my 7th re-watch of [The Originals](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Originals_(TV_series)>). Strangely, it’s gorier than I remember but the most glaring thing I’ve noticed as well is how incredible the writing for [Niklaus](https://vampirediaries.fandom.com/wiki/Niklaus_Mikaelson) is. He comes off as heavily flawed, and when you look at him with the “moral markers” we have constructed as a society, his shortcomings are plenty. Still, one of the first things you notice when you start watching is how likable he is in the viewing community, and it gets interesting seeing how easy it is to absolve him of all iniquity. Maybe the audience at large knows it is just a show, and finds it easy then to subconsciously trivialize the bad things he does. Though honestly, I think the correct answer is that his standing as a protagonist gives us (the audience) a greater platform to know him in his entirety.

I guess the fear is that it can become increasingly possible to see _one too many zebras_. There is a lot of nuance in this world, and sometimes it can feel like the binary of right and wrong is insufficient when evaluating our actions. Behavior is so complex, and it can feel like you're traversing a labyrinth when trying to understand why someone acts in a certain way. Some days I wonder whether the only reason a person might not extend sympathy or understanding to the person they dislike is because they do not have a platform to know them intricately. It feels like there are so many variables to consider; there is so much complexity to unpack when conceptualizing the reasons we do wrong. I have spent the whole day questioning whether behaviour can always be rationalized and whether shortcomings may always be vindicated by surrounding them with circumstantial evidence.

Perhaps this is also what makes the show such a hit: though we are not aware (yet) of any vampires or werewolves, the constant moral tussle can feel representative of the human world. There is some realness to it, and it gives us a lot to think about. I will probably spend the rest of my evening doing just that — thinking of a way to position my pendulum so that it does not swing too far in either direction.
