---
title: "A Sense Of Agency"
date: "2023-9-11"
desc: "In search of greater security."
---

There's a lot of things in this world that give me comfort. Arsenal, Chess, Bon Iver, Max Ritcher, Phoebe Bridgers, ATLA, Cats, Ted Lasso, Vinland Saga, Cornflakes, Ed Sheeran, Bleach, watching Martin Ødegaard play. If I were to make a list of the people/things that make me very happy in this life, it’d be ridiculously extensive. I’m grateful for that. It’s a blessing to have so many avenues of happiness that I can cling unto.

Writing code tops that list though, and by some distance. I've been trying to explore why that is, and for now I haven't accepted that I like it so much because I do. I can accept that I have some natural aptitude towards it, and that I just gravitate towards the space. But it still feels like there's a lot more depth behind that rationale, a deeper construct that resides within me that allows me to make it my safe space. This could be my mind doing it's usual mental gymnastics again, but I guess the following paragraphs I’ve churned out this evening serve as my hypothesis as to why that is.

Large portions of my adolescence were (and to a smaller extent still are) ridden with anxiety. I've gotten exponentially better at managing the issue but looking back, there have been so many days across my life where it's felt like I couldn't breathe, where the sheer angst in my chest was heavy enough to keep me tethered to my bed, and where I have had to find a way to get through periods that were enveloped by my mind's suffocating anticipation of doom. I can't provide all the intricate details that explain why I used to feel anxious (I might be able to if I try but for the sake of brevity I'll do so another time) but a main driver behind this feeling was the fact that adolescence naturally brought with it a strong burden of uncertainty. It's like as I eclipsed greater degrees of sentience, I was more aware that life could throw negative experiences at me.

I think a large portion of my anxiety was also in turn influenced by my context. As a Nigerian growing up in the 21st Century, the happenings around my country can be very anxiety-inducing. I think younger me was coming to terms with the fact that volatility was the natural order, and that irregularity was the status quo. Now whilst I understood that primary agency belonged to me, there were so many variables still outside my reach and the future, by definition, presented itself as terrifying. I think I just felt small, insignificant, vulnerable and openly susceptible to wherever the winds of chance and change might blow.

I’m not sure when I started coding. It might have been around the age of 12 or 13 but I do recall that I was absolutely hooked. It was great to see that I could string a few keywords together and get my computer to do something. Beyond that though, I think it felt really safe because for once, I had a much greater sense of command over the direction I could steer my ship. When I was building something, the bulk of decisions I had to make from development to production were up to me. I got to choose how I wanted to set up my workspace. I got to choose how I wanted to flesh out the design philosophy and styling. And if I was the only one working on it, the hosting decisions and overall site architecture were also things well within my control. I could quite literally pull something from the dusty recesses of my mind and have it materialize on screen in front of me. Applications could be more or less what I wanted them to be, and although I would occasionally run into hiccups with bugs, the sheer force of my will was always enough to bend what I had in mind into reality. I liked that there were distinct rules to follow, and that if I thought logically about things and followed the syntaxes, things would turn out optimally. The computer gave me what I gave it, and I knew that if I wrote code well, there was very little uncertainty regarding how my applications would perform. In many cases life doesn’t work that way. Reality is not always what you initially envision, and even when you make seemingly “right” decisions, things can often still turn out in ways you’re not happy about. It’s out of your control, and there are limits to how far your agency can get you.

I suppose coding was my [metaphor for control](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/8001698-painting-is-metaphor-for-control-every-choice-is-mine-the), and the color-coded keywords I loved to string together was my attempt at building a world within me that allowed me to take charge of my initial context. Somewhere I could define what variables I needed to use and how I wanted to use them. A comforting place were I was vary rarely caught by surprise.

If all this is correct, and seeking agency is my “why”, the only thing that remains inconclusive is whether it’s a good “why”. It feels like I’ve crafted this space as a form of escapism. Can I call this positive development? Is this growth? That bit is still unclear to me, so I’ll try and spend the next few days thinking of an answer.
