---
title: "The Promise To Be Better"
date: "2023-3-7"
desc: "When I procrastinate things."
---

Whenever I procrastinate, the chances are that I've made a small promise to myself to do better. Whether it's that I'm taking a longer nap than I need to or putting off sending an email that I have to send. Or just in general when I don't seize an opportunity that I ideally should, it's because I've made a promise in my head that I'd do better when next time comes around. These promises can get very complex as well because I find that in order to get the “hardworking” part of my body to yield, a detailed reason as to why work is being put on the backlog must be given.

For a long time, the details in these plans served as due markers to identify when exactly I could procrastinate. I was under the illusion that when I actually wanted to procrastinate, the “laziness” that came from procrastination would cause me to submit sub-par reasoning as to why I wanted to procrastinate at that time. “I'm too tired. If I take a nap, I'd have even more energy to do this ”, “The sun is too hot”, and “I could do it tomorrow”. They're lazy, and although they are incredibly difficult to overcome (as they're backed by the bodily default to flee discomfort), I find that when I pass them through a reflective lens occasionally, I can easily identify these as markers for procrastination. They usually consist of a simple reason why my body does not want to do it, and why I'm sure to do better (or be a better person) the next time the opportunity comes around i.e. “I'm too tired, if I take a nap, I'll have more energy to do this.”

This is all well and good, but over the past few months, a lot of my procrastination has not come from instances where I've put off doing things because of the whim of the moment. I've actually gotten quite good at snuffing that out and taking action accordingly. The procrastination that's eluded me is the one that's backed by much stronger reasoning as to why I shouldn't act now. It's not “my legs are tired”, or “it's too hot” reasoning — it's usually birthed under the guise of prioritization, especially when there are many seemingly productive courses of action to take.

There's a lot I do with my time and a lot of that that I would describe as productive. Nevertheless, it's been frustrating to see some projects that I've conceptualized take to the backlog for months without me noticing that I've endlessly procrastinated since the start of that project because my brain has given me strong reasoning as to why I should start something else before I embark on said project. It's been ridiculously easy to not see this for so long too because the procrastination I’ve described to you has been “productive”?

I'm not sure how I can develop a smarter heuristic though. I know that I've identified the issue already but what markers can I now set to identify something as procrastination if it passes through my prioritization process and places lower on the list? I'm not sure actually, though I suppose I really just need to accept that I'll never be on top of everything I need to do at any given time. There'll always be tasks on the backlog, some for months on end. Hopefully, as I go through life I just get better at navigating that and doing the things I can immediately I can.
